I invite you to stand as you're able in body or in spirit for the reading of our gospel lesson this morning.
Our gospel will come from Matthew chapter 3.
Verses 1-12.
Matthew 3:1.
Verses 1 through 12.
In those days, John the Baptist appeared in the wilderness of Judea.
Proclaiming repent.
For the kingdom of heaven has come near.
this is the one whom of whom the prophet isaiah spoke when he said
The voice of one crying out in the wilderness.
Prepare the way.
Of the lord
And make his path straight.
Now John wore clothing of camel's hair with a leather belt around his waist.
And his food was locust and wild honey.
And the people of Jerusalem and all of Judea were going out to him and all the reeds along the Jordan. And they were baptized by him in the river Jordan, confessing their sins.
But when he saw many Pharisees and Sadducees coming for baptism, he said to them, you brood of vipers.
Who warned you to flee from the wrath to come?
they are fruit worthy of repentance do not presume to say to yourselves we have abraham as our ancestor
For I tell you, God is able to from these stones raise up children to Abraham. Even now the axe is lying at the root of the trees. Every good tree, therefore, that does not bear
It's not bare fruit, it's cut down and thrown into the fire.
I baptize you with water.
For repentance.
The one who is more powerful than I is coming after me.
And I am not worthy to carry his sandals.
He will baptize you with the Holy Spirit and with fire.
His willing fork is in his hand.
And he will clear his threshing floor and will gather his wheat into the granary.
But the chaff he will burn with unquenchable fire.
This is the word of God for the people of God.
Thanks be to God. you may be seated.
I don't know if kids take this class now.
like we had two an hour as a kid and some of you
in the congregation probably took this class is when I was in third grade
I had to take a handwriting class.
And that was when they taught us the foreign language that is known as cursive.
Yeah.
But we had to work on our handwriting.
And I'm saying this.
now and some of you have already chuckled because at some point in your life you may have received from me a handwritten note.
And for that, I'm sorry.
Some people speak with unknown tongues.
our right and unknown tongues
I tell folks I have the handwriting of a doctor, just not the intelligence.
It's gonna shock you when I tell you this.
I did not excel in my third grade handwriting class.
I know you found that hard to believe those you who have seen my handwriting someone told me recently my handwriting offended them when they got something from me
so when i bombed a class i think i made like a fifty on it. you know i am a superior person in superior intelligence.
in an intellect back in bogota we had to get our
past our failing grades, signed by our parents. Well,
My parents would not have appreciated a handwriting grade of fifty.
So once again, being the superior supervillain intellect that I have, I decided to hide my handwriting
Failing.
test grade
Under my pillow,
in my bed.
Never thinking my mom would never seek to, I don't know, look under my pillow.
But when I did this, when I failed this test,
and when i hit it.
I knew they'd talk to him. Oh, I'm getting in
I'm getting trouble. I'm getting trouble. She's going to find it. I'm going to get in trouble. I'm going to get in trouble. And I was so afraid. I was so anxious, so worried.
worried that my mama was going to find this failing test grade and I was going to get in trouble. Well, spoiler alert, I bet you can figure out how this little mischievous
Mischievous plan played out, didn't you?
of course she found it and of course she said what are you doing i'm like lucky right she's like we all know that.
But I got it signed.
And I got in trouble.
and the sordid tale of Andy's criminal career ended.
I was so I remember to this day how afraid I was that my mom was going to find this bad grade that I had hidden.
And when she found it,
i was actually relieved.
Whew!
It's over.
I can stop my criminal experience now.
I was so afraid
I was so afraid of getting caught.
that I just had no peace because of it.
No peace.
Today's passage is interesting. As Lauren said during the children's moment, we're in Advent, and as you heard Bob and Joanne with a candle, every Sunday we light a candle.
I can't. I can't. And talk about a theme that resonates along these things. And so, yeah.
Like last week, we talked about hope, and yet the text was the Lord's return. And you're like, what does that mean for hope? We talked about how the Lord, that's weakened out hope because the Lord's return.
Because the Lord's not coming to get us. The Lord's coming to save us. Amen.
likewise today.
It's peace.
Hey, y'all.
John!
Was an Old Testament prophet. he was not a modern preacher. I have been preaching for a long time. I have never begun a sermon. You brewed a viper's.
What brought you here?
Like normally we try to come up with an engaging story that endears you to the congregation. We don't call them a bunch of snakes typically. Not typically how this goes. But John, man,
Man, John comes out and John's swinging.
John's going for the fences. John is the last of the Old Testament prophets.
And the job of the Old Testament prophets was always, always, always to call the people to account, to call the people out for where they had made their way.
He had missed the mark of the covenant. So John is calling the people out. He's saying, repent. Repent.
Repent. Repent.
Turn from your sin. Repent.
And that does not feel
Like a peaceful
Sermon!
It doesn't feel
Like a peaceful word
To say, repent,
You bunch of snakes?
like, doesn't feel that way, does it?
Yeah, that's the very
Thing that it.
does.
There's a...
It's a prayer I like to pray.
A lot of mornings when I do my devotional times out of the book of Luke.
Calling prayer from the Episcopal Church.
It's called the prayer of a nasa.
This prayer says, "You, O God,
of the God
Of those
Who repents?
Friends,
Repentance,
Is a gift.
Repentance.
repentance is our chance and our moment and our time when we can go to God and say God
i'll mess up.
God, I have failed. God, I have grievously sinned against you. I bewail my manifold sins as the old Methodist king.
This comedian liturgy says, I have failed. I have done wrong. It comes to me, let's be honest. There are some times, there are some times in our life when we don't know what the right answer is, isn't there? Like, really, there's some
Next, we don't know.
But friends, there's also Tom's.
When we know, you know,
There's times we know what the wrong thing is. We do it anyway.
What's the old hymn?
Come thou fount prone to wander.
Lord, I feel it, prone to leave the God I love. We all are sinful.
One of the best quotes I ever heard is by Brennan Manning, his book, The Raggle of the Gospel.
You've heard me tell it to you before. Manning says, very few of us really believe we're sinful.
So very few of us actually believe we are forgiven.
We live lives of pseudo guilt and pseudo bliss, never experiencing the grace of God. Repentance is a gift.
And here's why.
Here's why repentance is a gift. And here's why repentance leads to peace. Because when we repent, we look at God and say, God, I blew it.
God, i failed.
God, in this area of my life, I messed up.
In this area, I have chosen wrong. In this area, I have done wrong. God, I have failed you.
and what happens when we go to god and say god i have failed you?
I'll repent of my sins.
We hear you are forgiven.
See, friends, that's the gift of repentance. That's the gift of God's grace. How many relationships in your life
How many relationships in your life can you look at the other person and say,
I intentionally, I purposely,
I have chosen wrong. I have done wrong. I have failed you. I have not heard the cry of the needy.
I have grieved your holy law. God, I have done wrong.
How many relationships in our life can we say that?
I failed.
To the other person
Because what are we normally hear in our life?
i messed up.
You should have known better.
Right?
How often in our life
When we mess up, do we hear those words?
You are forgiven.
How how many relationships do we have in our life?
when we fail.
and the other person says,
I know.
And I love you anyway.
That's why repentance is a gift, friends.
Because repentance doesn't show us our sin.
Repentance shows us the depth of God's love.
Up for us.
Repentance doesn't show us how unlovable we are. Repentance shows us how loved we are.
Repentance doesn't show us how unworthy we are. Repentance shows us how worthy we are.
Repentance doesn't show us our failures.
Repentance shows us God's love.
as the bible tells us if we confess our sins he who is faithful and just will cleanse us from all unrighteousness
Repentance leads to peace because repentance reminds us that we are
Are.
Forgiven.
Repentance leads to peace because repentance shows us that our worth
It is now found in our actions.
That are worth
It's not defined by our failures.
but our worth is found only in the goodness and in the grace of jesus christ.
You are.
Forgiven.
So while John might start off a little rough with the whole snake talk
He's telling us the truth.
Repentance.
Leads to peace.
Because repentance reminds us that we are
Forgiven.
And as Paul writes,
That peace that passes all understanding.
will guard our hearts.
In Christ Jesus.
We just have to have the courage.
to go to God.
And to confess,
And repent.
In turn.
i had a friend of mine i was friends with for years.
And uh
our relationship got a little sideways through the years.
And and you know how it is sometimes when?
Relationships get sideways.
And you're afraid to reach out to the person because they think you're mad at them.
So like this person I was different with for many years. We stopped talking.
over a misunderstanding.
And we even
Eventually wind up in the same town again.
and.
it was so weird.
I would see this person in town and I know I should go talk to them.
But I fault.
oh they're mad at me you know they had they hadn't talked to me in years so obviously they're mad at me right.
So,
i avoided them cause i knew they were mad at me.
one day we just happen
To have to find ourselves the situation where we had to talk.
And the first fifteen minutes,
We're really awkward.
and then i just said hey listen i'm sorry.
I should have reached out to you.
But I, I figured you were mad at me.
And he said, oh,
I should have reached out to you.
Because
I figured you were mad at me.
Turns out,
we we had not talked for years because we both thought the other person was mad at us.
When in turn, we were mad at each other.
if we had just taken the time to pick up the phone and talk or taken the time even to send a text message that those years.
Those years of
Lack of communication
It would have never happened.
we just assumed.
The person was mad at us.
I can't read my Bible.
Think about how long it's been since I read my Bible. Surely God is mad at me or disappointed in me.
I can't come back to church. think about how long has this has been in church. Surely God is mad or disappointed at me, right?
I can't serve.
I can't teach. Surely God is mad at me.
Four.
The ways I've not been faithful in the past.
When we confess our sins, he who is faithful and just,
will cleanse us from all evil.
unrighteousness.
Friends,
Do not miss the peace.
That Jesus is longing to give to you today.
We do not repent for God's sake. We repent for our sake.
Because then when we repent we are told
You
are
Forgiven,
And you
Or mine.
Oh, at peace we often forfeit.
Oh what needless pain we bear.
All book of calls we do not carry.
everything to God.
In prayer.
Today we repent.
Say we are forgiven.
Today we can know peace.
In the name of the Father, and the Son, and the Holy Spirit
Let us pray.